Title: Les Cimes Marathon
Date: 2012-05-17 21:24:00
Tags: marathon, race, mtb

[Les Cimes](http://les-cimes-de-waimes.be). First race of the year. First race of the [EBMC](http://ebmc.info). I was really getting exited. Finally after all the hard work I have put in this winter I get to ride a marathon. Even though I was not able to train properly the last month and a half, I had high hopes for a good result. My intention was to average a speed of 15 km/h, which is faster then I have ever been before, and I wanted to finish top half. I was also going to try a new breakfast strategy. No solid foods, just energy drink and a gel. This should, in theory make me conserve fluids better and have an easier start.

Our group consisted of Tim, Jurriaan, Sophia and I. Tim I knew was faster, Sophia I suspected would also be faster. Jurriaan I was not so sure. I figured he would start faster but I would catch him somewhere mid-race. The weather has turned for the better and so we were enjoying the sun getting ready for the race. A short discussion about tyre pressure (I went with 2 bar), and we headed for the start line. Tim, having a racing license was off first, We started 20 minutes later. Jurriaan was, as I expected way faster at the start, I lost him within 5 seconds. a minute in to the race, I left Sophia behind me. I decided to try something new this time. I was going to stay in zone 3 for the first hour and then increase to zone 4 for as long as I could.

We took our place in the queue to start and waited. After 5 min or so we slowly progressed towards the start line, as the start was done in short waves. Jurriaan I lost in front of us, Sophia was next to me. Then we were off. After about 20 sec, I looked behind but couldn't see Sophia anymore. I figured she would catch up any second. My plan to stay at zone 3 was abandoned 5 minutes in, as we hit the first real climb. It has changes to stay mostly in zone 3 and don't hit zone 5. I was going at the good tempo, my legs were feeling good. Even though we didn't get to warm up I was not having any problem. We left the asphalt and got into the woods. The course was becoming a lot of fun. Singletracks full of roots and stones, good descents and climbs. The route was given very clearly and every other km was a sign with the amount of km's ridden. Brilliant. There was no hesitation about which way to go. The breakfast strategy was working well. I was feeling light and relaxed. I am going to repeat this.

The feeding stations were, as always in de Ardennen excellent. Tasty food, fruit and energy drinks. The first 20km I did in just over an hour. This was all going well. Time to let go. The next three hours I was going to zone 3-4, hitting the 5 on some climbs. I was surprised to see that even though I am technically not that strong, I was better then most people around me. My Liteville 301 saved my ass several times by absorbing obstacles I was sure were gonna tip me over. Such a dream bike. There were long patches of mud to go through (it has been raining a lot the past few weeks). I don't particularly like the mud. You can feel it draining the speed out of your wheels. Somewhere along the 50km point I caught up with Jurriaan. 5 km's later was the famous ski lift climb. You cycle up a steep climb that has a ski lift on it for the winter. Quite fun. The last 20m or so I walked. I figured this is a marathon, I need my legs to keep going for a while and I didn't want to blow them on the climb. Next year I will do it all. At around km 60 I left Jurriaan behind me, expecting to see him again only in the finish line.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/oM0Pcu0taQU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Normally I try to accelerate the last 10 km. Most people break mentally by that point and go slow, so you can gain a lot of places in the finish by actually going faster. 10 km is not that far so if your mentally string you can go fast. Unfortunately, I wasn't. After 5km at an accelerated tempo, I also broke mentally and started going slower. It was at this point, traversing a muddy section that Jurriaan came flying by. I managed a "You have got to be kidding me" at him before he was gone. Later he will tell me that he saw me from afar and decided he will pass me. Kudos for being mentally that strong. My only real disappointed with myself is this point of the race. I had it physically in me to go faster. My legs were hurting a little but that was all. It was the mental game I lost. I finally did and end sprint but way to late. I could have stepped it up sooner. I was fearing a big end climb like in the Ardennen trophy.

I finished 430, with a time of 5:31:48. That is top half, and average speed of 15:37 km/h. Targets achieved. This race day has really been a good one. Great fun, good weather and good friends. Great ride, and my targets for the race met. What I learned for next time is:

* I need mental training to be stronger
* Study the course well, and the last 20km very well.
* I made some steering errors, I need to be more focused.

All in all, its mostly mental which is good. Looking forward to my next race, the Ardennen trophy.

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0' allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no' src='http://app.strava.com/runs/8728442/embed/ea048d21533b300cb2123361b92b9e214bfe50a3'></iframe>