Title:A trip through the capitals
Date: 2007-11-28 09:59:00
Tags: Me, travel

Diving has not been to me all that I had expected it to be. I was actually
waiting for my mind to be blown away, all my old hobbies forgotten and a new
obsession to be introduced. Instead what I found was a charming, relaxing
experience that offers very little in the adrenaline department, but a lot on
the animal viewing department. I did not expect me to get all excited about
seeing a shark. Its just a really large fish after all. Yet, when I did see a
shark, from quite close by actually, I was excited. Not in fear mind you, but
in awe. The movements so strong and sure, a creature in total dominance of
itself and its surrounding. It really was all that and more. Diving has not
proven to be my new adrenaline shot, but in a sense it is something better.
Something that I can't quite get in any other sport. After finishing the
course we started our trip north, with our final stop Chiang Mai. On the way
we passed through all the capitals of Thailand, old and new. From Koh tao we
travelled to Bangkok. It was not our intention to stay there, just to spend
the night as a stop on our way north. In the morning we were confronted, for
the first time in Thailand, by tourist hassles. We wanted a taxi or a tuktuk
to the bus station. No taxi would take us with the meter. they all wanted a
flat price of 300 Bath (around 6 euro). Having travelled before we knew that
means the price is way to high, so after walking a bit further from the
tourist area, we found a taxi that would take us with a meter. It was 91 Bath
to the bus station. Two hours later we were in Ayutthaya, the old capital, and
the seat of power for the Siam kings. Ayutthaya is not a pretty place, but it
has around 400 temple ruins spread amongst its modern houses. Some of these
are nothing more then a low square wall about 3 meter long and 3 meter wide.
Others are tall Stupas and Prangs. To manage to see most of it, we rented a
scooter. I have had a motorcycle before so I knew how to drive with gear.
These scooters have a gear box that feels like it was made to be used with
slippers. Instead of the usual small lever, there is a pedal for shifting up,
and one for shifting down, making it easy to shift with sandals. Luckily
because man it was hot! I have not had shows on since we left china. The
temples of Ayutthaya have been quite impressive and by the day's end we
managed to see pretty much all that we wanted. so we headed north to Lopburi.
Lopburi is a small town. It has nothing really going for it, except once a
year. They have a lot of monkeys there. Once a year top chefs from Bangkok
cook a king's meal for the monkeys, who ravage the tables set for them. That's
what we came to see, and it was worth passing by for. Those of you who
remember our trip in Kenya know we had a run with monkeys in the past, so we
were more careful these time. They are wild animals, and they really have big
teeth. Seeing a monkey trying to open a can of Coke is actually quite amusing.
And seeing them running around with pasta in their mouth is hilarious. We left
the same day. Arriving finally in Sukothai, the even older capital of
Thailand. It also has a lot of ruined temple and an impressive old city. Again
we rented a scooter and went touring. The Ayutthaya temples were destroyed by
the Burmese army in the 18th century, the Buddhas there beheaded. It was nice
to finally see Buddha images with the head on. We also saw the biggest Buddha
as of yet. 16m tall and 9m wide sitting Buddha. The sculpture is in a room
just barely bug enough to hold it, making it look even bigger. It is quite
impressive. In Sukothai we also learned about the different posture of the
Buddha images, and what they all means. I was again confronted by just how
little I know about eastern religion and believes. It is a shame, as Buddhism
and Hinduism are both very large religions. I definitely should take some time
to learn more about them. Finally, having seen all the old capitals, we took
the bus to Chiang Mai and here we are now. Chiang Mai has a lot to offer. So
much in fact that we are taking a whole day just to decide what we want to do
here. We want to take a cooking course, we want to ride mountain bikes, we
want to trek, we want to raft, we want to see the hill tribes, we want ...,
the list just goes on and on. Our time unfortunately, does not. So we will
have to cut a few things out of the plan, trim some days of several
activities, and find a way in between. In about one week we need to be heading
into Cambodia. Ill let you know how it all turned out :) Last, but not least,
the gallery page has been updated. in the trip album ther eis an album called
new. We will upload the new pictures here, moving them out each time before
loading new pictures. This should make it easier to see which pictures are the
newest. Love Kfir

