Title:Branch'em and Tag'em
Date: 2011-04-13 13:47:50
Tags: branching, guide, svn, tags, version control, work

Version control is one of those essential programming tools that, when first
coming across its not immediately clear how beneficial it is, but after using
it for a while you just don't understand how you could have lived without it.
Aside from the obvious benefits it gives you for actual versioning of your
code, it makes controlling what code is on the live site is running on quite
easy. In this guide I will explain how we usually go about using version
control software to control the live code. At the moment we are (still) using
svn at Dutch Open Projects and so this guide is showing svn code. The same
principles can be applied if you are using mercurial or git, but the commands
will be different (Mercurial en git actually have a proper tagging system).

### Layout

In this guide I assume that the repository has the following construction:

Since this guide is about controlling code on the live server an assumption is
made that the trunk head is what you want to set on the live server. Also
there are two servers here `devel` and `live`

### The Commands

There are three commands that are used in this process:

  * Merge
  * Copy
  * Switch

If you are totally unfamiliar with these commands, I recommend you read about
them first as it will help clear up what is actually happening

### Updating Release Branch

The first thing that needs to be done is to retrieve which reversion the
release branch is in. The following command will show you that

`svn log svn://devel/path/to/repository/branches/release -v | less`

The output generated by svn is piped to the less command for easier reading.
In this manner you can retrieve the last revision in this branch. Now that the
start point is known a merge van be executed. assumeing the last revision in
the releasse banch is 1234 the merge command will look like this.

`svn merge -r:1234:HEAD svn://devel/path/to/repo/trunk
svn://devel/path/to/repo/branches/release`

Now the changes in the trunk made from the last revision checked into

