Title:Forbidden city and the communist emperor
Date: 2007-11-01 09:52:05
Tags: travel

A few days ago we visited the forbidden city. The place sure justifies the
city part. To call it a palace will be an insult to the shear size of the
place. It is probably bigger then most average size villages. For you dutch
readers, its probably slightly bigger then the center of Leiden. In
contradiction to European palaces of having one major building with a few
small ones, the forbidden city is almost a maze of large and small buildings
with walls in between. Less then half of it is open to the public and yet
after spending a whole day there we still did not manage to see all of the
public areas. It really is that big. The attention to detail is amazing. They
had about 500 years to perfect it, and it looks like they really took the
time. Even the stone sewer covers are nicely decorated. Every piece of wall,
roof, window and stair has been given attention. You get the feeling that if
an area is plain looking its like that because it was the intention, not for
lack of attention, or time. All that said there are some pointers the Chinese
government could use to make this place even more interesting to visit. Hiring
someone that can actually speak English as a language, and not just translate
Chinese text for once. A lot of time when reading the signs next to the
building you can see it is just literally translated from Chinese. The other
place where improvement can be made is in the content. Every building had
pretty much the same sign. It was so bad we eventually started to make jokes
about it. Every building was built in the Ming dynasty and had a name with
Harmony, Longevity and/or some season name in it. Each one was rebuilt during
the Qing dynasty, renamed twice using the same naming rule. And that's about
it. Only 3 buildings actually had more than that on their sign. A place with
500 years of history probably has more to say about its buildings one might
think. Not that this will diminish the experience, which is amazing. Yesterday
we went to the Mao memorial. His body is kept there for all to walk by and
admire. It is an experience you have to see when in China. Paula and I got the
feeling this is their emperor. Its like the Chinese need an emperor, and in
the communist time, the only possible emperor is Mao.

