Title:Kellerwald Marathon
Date: 2011-04-20 14:15:26
Tags: kellerwald, marathon, mtb, race, rwp

Kellerwald. Opening race of the RWP Marathon cup. Marathons are what I have
been training for and the main focus for me this season. I was really looking
forward to this one. Just 4 days before the start Sophia decided she will
participate too. This was wonderful news for me as it ment I wont have to
drive alone back after the marathon, and more importantly it will give me an
objective reference point to my improvements. You see, Sophia was with us at
the trans alp and as such, I know how I compared to her before all the
training (badly, very badly).

With its 120km and 3000m of climbing the Kellerwald marathon is intimidating
as the first marathon of the season. It didn't help that instead of the usual
one big round, it turned out that it is a 40km circuit which you repeat, once,
twice or 3 times depending on your category. All in all it was enough to get
me worrying just how well will I be able to race.

![Kellerwald Circuit](/images/kellerwaldround.jpg)

Saturday afternoon we left for Gilserberg. As can be expected, things were
well arranged. There was a place for campers, and for us people with normal
cars, a school next to the starting point was converted to a sleeping area.
There was also a bar with beer. It looked like all the locals were there
drinking and laughing. The atmosphere was good, and that always helps relax.
at 22:30 we were fast asleep in our sleeping bags.

![Kellerwald Marathong race HQ](/images/racecentral.jpg)

We got up at 6 and had a good, if light breakfast. Around us it was buzzing
with activity. People doing some final test on the bikes, eating, warming up.
We were getting in the spirit of the race. The big question was what to wear.
At the moment it was around 5 degrees and cloudy. The last weather update said
19 degrees and sun. So what do you wear? I eventually decided that I will go
short all the way. Sophia went with short pants and a long sleeve shirt.

We picked our number plates and headed for the start line. It was packed with
people, which was good because I was quite cold. Next to us were two elder
german riders. Even though I made it clear I don't speak german,  they tried
to make some small talk. One of them asked in very broken english if the first
round counts for the time. I couldn't imagine us going through 40km of warm up
before the timer starts so I said I am pretty sure it does. The germans
however looked unconvinced. Then the countdown from 10 started and we were
off.

Everybody started at an easy pace, which was kind of odd for me, especially
after the Bergrace start tempo. After a few hundred meters tarmac we got off
to a gravel path and started circling back towards the start. It then hit me
what these germans meant with first round. Its this double back loop. It
definitely helps to get a more ordered start once you pass by a second time.
Since this is my first Kellerwald marathon I don't know if they do this every
time or not. This does seem to be the norm though.

Sophia and me were cycling together at first. I was expecting her to just fire
by me. To my surprise I was holding back to stay with her. She is however a
much better athlete, and so I figured warming up with her is probably better
then some mad starting dash, so we continued together. After around 6 km we
hitted the first big climb.

The path was a wide forest path typical to germany. As I expected, 10 minutes
into the climb Sophia started to edge away from me. I was already way above
the heart rate I was planning on going and so I let her go. Another 5 minutes
and she was 300m or so ahead of me. She wasn't, however, going any further.
This was ver uplifting for me. More uplifting was that I was passing people on
the way up. A totally new experience for me. Then the climb was over and it
was time hammer it down. "I am going to catch up to Sophia" was all I was
thinking. The path changed to a wonderful, slippery, and tight singletrack.
Even though I was one of the few people riding a hardtail bike, I was passing
people left and right. Then I erred and went to wide on a corner. Breaking
like mad I just barely escaped crashing into a tree. The train of people I
passed all went by before I could continue. Slightly dishearten but still
feeling good, I went at it again.

Once again I was hammering it and passing people. What I didn't count on was
that this is the big league. I got passed as well a few times by guys going so
fast you would think they are on DH bikes and not XC. This too, was a new
experience for me. The singletrack decent ended and I saw sophia not 20 meters
ahead of me. Then we reached the second big climb and it started with a very
steep, slippery grass field. I tried to shift down on my front derailleur but
it just wouldn't go. So I  stopped and did it manually. Sophia was by now once
again 200 meters ahead. That field was a real killer, but I made it. As we
continued climbing I was, ever so slowly coming closer and closer to Sophia.
The second really hard part of the climb was a rocky steep slope that are so
common in the Ardenen in Belgium. Some people were already walking as I cycled
past them. Then the climb got less intensive and I was able to pick up the
tempo. By this time I was quite close to Sophia. "Thats it" I decided and
increased my tempo.

Took me around 30 seconds, and I was out of breath, but I caught her.  We
cycled together for around a minute or two. The tempo was to slow for my
comfort. Not what I expected. So I told Sophia good luck and I went ahead.
When the decent came it was again a brilliant twisted single track. Wonderful
choice the organization made. Somewhere there was the first support/food stop.
I just zoomed by. I was commited to this and I was only planning on stopping
if I really had to. I remebered there were 3 big climbs with the middle one
being the real bastard of them. The last one was the smallest of the three so
I was really surprised when I saw ust how steep this third, smaller climb was.

Even though it was a wide path a car could drive on, some people were walking.
It was just that steep. Then a corner and just like that it was over and I was
in open fields heading back to Gilserberg. It took me 2:20 to finish the first
round. Not as fast as I hopped. Even though my pace was not as planned, I
decided to take it down a notch. With two rounds to go, this was no time to go
crazy and to finish my body before time.

The second round felt a lot harder. My legs started to hurt, the climbs felt
steeper and even on the down hill parts I was going slower because of muscle
fatigue. This time I stopped at the supply point and had a bite. I was fully
expecting Sophia to come flying by. She didn't. With most of the race behind
me I left, feeling physically tired but mentally strong. I got back to the
start point, and there was no way to continue, only a path to the finish.

![IMG 0713](/images/img_0713.jpg)

"What the hell?!" I stopped and ask some spectators and they said it was
finished. "Oh fuck, oh fuck" Was all I could think of. I passed the finish
line at 5 hours 11 minutes after doing only 80km and 2000 climbing meters. I
asked one of the organizers and he said that indeed they closed the path to
continue because otherwise it would have taken to long for people to finish.
When I asked how long ago he said something like 10-15 minutes ago. I was
mentally broken. 15 min to late! My first DNF! I was furious and devastated
all at once. Apparently, so they told me, its on the website, which btw, is
all in german. With a broken heart I set my trusty Specialized Rockhopper
aside and stood at the finish to wait for Sophia. She arrived about a quarter
of an hour after me. She physically broken and have, apparently already
decided to stop even before she saw she had to. Somewhere on the 50km line she
just went empty. I still think she is fitter then me, but finishing ahead of
her was for a moral boost because I finally had some way to measure my
progress, which was, it seems, quite big. We took a shower had a nice steak
from the BBQ with a good, cold, much deserved, beer and drove home.

All in all it was a great learning experience for me. Even though I ended DNF,
I learned a lot about racing in general(Totally new to it), marathons(long),
and racing in germany(time limit). Since this is my first season racing, I am
trying, as much as possible, to look at it as a learning season, and to be
less focused on results.

This map shows my progress. For more details you can look at the page on
runkeeper.

**Update:** I found a video of the marathon filmed by one of the participants that gives a good idea of the track.

