Title:Metathinking
Date: 2008-04-25 21:10:39
Tags: ideas

When confronted with some thought provoking subjects my mind has an
interesting side effect. Unconciounsly, I find myself thinking about the
actual thinking. Am I thinking in the correct abstraction level? Are my
thought not repetition on some previous idea? Are they permutations of ideas
already mentioned? Am I making sense at all in the direction I am going at the
moment? and so forth This type of thinking, which I like to call metathinking
is quite good. Thinking is just like most other things in life, practicing it
makes you better in it. finding your weak spots and improving them makes you
even better. I could say that if I was able to isolate the process of
metathinking and do it without the need for an actual subject I would be able
to improve my thinking on a fundamental level. This unfortunately escapes me.
No matter how hard I try I cant get myself to metathink good without anything
that is giving me a direction in which to think.This leads me to believe that
I can only metathink well when I can evaluate the progress I made. The last
statement in itself is enough for a long thought, which I might o some other
time. For now lets take it at face value. Lets project it to something
physical, like jogging. Paying attention to muscle tension, breathing, and
body movement while jogging will definitely improve your jogging. So its no
wonder metathinking while being busy with something improves my analysis of
it. However research has shown the visualizing running correctly, learning to
remove muscle tension while relaxing and improving breathing while **not**
jogging also improves your jogging. Of all these exercises the visualization
seems the closest to metathinking while not thinking of anything. So why cant
I seem to be able to do it? Hell if I know

