Title:Summer vacation
Date: 2008-08-27 15:35:37
Tags: diving, fun, switzerland, thoughts, travel, vacation

Summer came, and summer is almost gone now. I have been quite busy and so
neglected my blogging commitment. Here to make it right is a post about this
wonderful summer. During this summer I had two major vacations. Two weeks in
Berner Oberland, Switzerland, and a week in Israel out of which 3 days were
taken by a dive safari in the Red Sea. Before I start telling about these two
thought, I'd like to say that the actual travelling start with two visits to
Fontainebleau within a month. Bleau is always fun, and every time I come back
I find myself wondering why I don not go there more often. I hope this new
trend of vising at least once a month on average (more in the summer, not so
much in the winter).

Berner Oberland, oh, Berner Oberland. Home of the Jungfrau, the Eiger with its
world famous north face and the Aletschhorn glacier to name a few. Paula and
me spent a day in Bern, which was nice, but I was feeling restless. I wanted
to see the Eiger. So the next day we left for Launterbrunnen, which lies in a
dale starting close to Interlaken. It is a place out of a fairy tale. The dale
has walls of a few hundred meters high. A few waterfalls flow from the top to
form magnificent waterfalls. It is a place that, at least in me, steers a
feeling of magic. The next two days we spent mountain biking in the area.

The first day we went up from Launterbrunnen to Muren. That proved to be a
somewhat difficult day. In total its 900m of a continuous climb. We were not
ready for that much climbing. By the time we reached Muren it really felt like
a victory. We were quite tired, and, failing to find an apple shtrudel had to
settle for a cup of coffee. The way down was fun. Those 900m went flying by.
There were a few places with warning signs instructing us to get of the bikes.
We didn't. It was fun. The next day we went for a somewhat flatter route,
going only 400m vertical. It was still bloody difficult. Our legs were tired
but the scenery was so beautiful they were easy to ignore. The third day we
were expecting Bas and Charlotte to arrive at the afternoon. Seeing as we were
about to embarke on a 8 day hike we decied to take it easy. The day's activity
consisted of getting provinces and getting the bag ready for the coming hike.
Bas said they would be there at around 16:00. So we expected them at 19:00 the
earliest. We were caught by complete surprise when Bas and Charlotte actually
arrived on time.

The hike itself was amazing. I have almost forgotten what a wonderful feeling
it is to walk in the alps, sleep in huts, and just generally be out, in
nature. Every day I was having more fun. We walked in 7 days from Grosse
Scheidek to Oeschinsee. I find my words fail me when I come to describe how it
was. The nature was so there, all around you, taking you in. Making me feel
small, and at the same time as free as can be. Standing at the foot of the
Eiger north face, looking at a wall 1700m high, its exhilarating. we were also
very lucky with the weather. We had almost exclusively sunny days. Till 16:00.
then it rained, hard. Then at 16:45 it became sunny again. Apparently it has
something to do with the area's micro climate. Lots of glaciers and a warm sun
will do that.

The second vacation was the diving safari in Sinai. I am a new diver. Its less
then a year since I followed a diving course during our trip to Thailand. Less
then a year and already I have dives in some of the est places in the world.
Coming from Israel I am no stranger to the Red Sea. This was however the first
time I properly dived in it. The safari was a 3 day, live on-board(as in on a
boat). Every day there are 4 dives, except the last days which can only have 3
because of time constrains. I don't know if I can conclude from this first
experience about all live-onboard safaris, but I believe they are all pretty
much like this. And by this I mean totally relaxing. You have zero worries.
All you have to do. All you can do is dive, eat sleep and read. Oh and setup
discos to dance into the night, but I think that was a bit unique :) . It is
an wholly relaxing, and energy filling experience. I highly recommend it as an
anti-stress treatment. Thats it for now, I'm all written out. Ill write some
more in the weekend.

