Title:The Terra cota army
Date: 2007-11-06 03:41:48
Tags: travel

The reason we actually came to Xi'an was to view the terra cota army.
Yesterday we finally did it. The sight of it has left us amazed. The terra
cota army was made for the burial of emperor Qin. Qin was the first to rule
over the whole of china. There were 5 kingdoms in china then. He has conquered
them all, creating the basis for what is modern day China. It is assumed he
believed he would continue to rule even after his death and that this army was
built for him to have soldiers to command after his death. The site is made
out of 3 pits. Pit 1 is the biggest and most impressive, hosting waht is
assumed to be a total of about 6000 warriors. Pit 2 was unfortunetl closed
when we were visiting. Pit 3 contains 72 warriors, most of them high ranking
officers, so it is assumed it was the command post. Pit 1 really is mind
bogging. It is huge, and there are just so many warriors there it is amazing,
and it is not yet fully discovered yet. We were really taken by it. I find it
hard to express in words the awe that we felt gazing upon them. Considering
this is all more then 2000 years old makes it even more amazing. The details
are amazing. No two warriors have the same face! The Chinese call it the 8th
world wonder and I find it hard to dispute. The amount of work, and riches
that went into making them is hard to imagine. The burial place of the emperor
himself is expected to be amazing as well, but it is still in the first phases
of excavation so there isnt anything to see there yet. The terra cota army
alone is worth a visit to Xi'an, and maybe even a detour into china if your in
the neighborhood. It is huge, it is impressive, and it is a sight that will
remain with you long after the trip becomes a far memory.

