Title:Walls, Palaces and some ripoffs
Date: 2007-10-27 13:29:37
Tags: travel

These last few days have been very impressive. Only after landing in China did
it sunk in that I am, actually going there. For the first time in my life I
was in a place where I could not read anything. Well unless they had some
small English translation bellow, but that's beside the point. It was all
overwhelming. We took the rich man way and got a taxi to our hotel. After a
short break we decided to play the good tourists and wait straight for
Tian'anmen square. Apparently its the biggest public square in the world. and
to be honest I believe it. Its huge. And I mean Huge with a capital H. Looking
around we noticed how relax everybody was. There were police officers around,
but it did not feel imposing. as a western its not easy to forget the sights
of the student in front of the tank in this square. Another thing which I
found quite ironic is a monument in the middle of the square. Its called the
"Obelisk for the people's heroes" and is closed to the public, who can only
see it from afar. Feeling good about ourselfs we went duck hunting, Peking
style. We didn't find the restaurant the Lonely planet recommended so we got
into some place that looked nice. We didn't know it at the time but we got our
wallets drained there with the prices. We figured it was OK, later we found
out we got the tourist menu, and basically just for the duck we payed what is
normal for a full meal. Oh well, first day mistakes. We closed our first day
with booking a trip to the great wall for the next day, leaving at 6 in the
morning. So we went to bed. Being the dutch people that we are, we were 5
minutes before time. Everybody else of course, was late. We managed to get
some sleep on the way there. Its about a 4 hour trip from Beijing to the part
of the wall we were going to see. We chose a relatively not touristic part of
the wall that also offers a one way hike, for 4 hours across the wall, ending
at another point. The wall is, well, great. Actually great does not do it
justice. It is like a huge stone serpent stretched across the hill top for as
far as the eye could see. It was an amazing experience walking on this wall of
myth and legend. Luck was with us and we got good weather. I would love to
keep on saying how amazing it all is, but it really is something one must see
and feel for oneself to understand. Getting back late in the evening we
collapsed on the bed. Yesterday we decided to take it down a nudge and just go
about the town. The temple of heaven park, with its symbolic temple of good
harvest in its center was our choice for the day's activity. The park has a
lovely atmosphere to it. Lots of old people, doing their thing. Singing,
dancing, playing music, playing cards, or just talking. It was a quite an
uplifting experience. From the park we went to Silk road, which is actually a
big, multiple-floored building with vendors,  selling everything, including
silk. Paula was checking out some silk so she can have some custom made for
her sister and/or mother. Then we decided to check the price of read- made
jackets. Paula started negotiating with the sales woman. She started at 1200
yuan (120 euro). We figured by that start price we can probably go to 400-500
the lowest. We were approaching to closing when a wonderful American woman
heard us, walked over and said she had paid 210 yuan for just such a jacket at
another vendor. The sales woman was not really happy with that, so she started
going down to 400. We decided to leave. She did went down to 210. We didn't
buy the jacket but we learned another lesson about what price to expect in
china. We were used to middle east 40-50% of the price. It seems here its 20%.
After a day at the park, and some price negotiations, we decided to explore
our hoel's surrounding. I have been complaining about the lack of coffee since
we arrived. It seems Chinese are not big on coffee, so finding coffee was
hard. And so it turns out we have a Starbucks 2 min walk from our hotel. Damn.
I'm not big on Starbucks, but its coffee, and I need my coffee. We also bought
some Nescafe for the hotel. They only give you tea in ours. Today we took the
bus to the summer palace. That on its own is an experience. Trying to not only
tell the conductor, who does not a speak of word of English, not only where
you are going, but also to let you know when to get out can be a challenge.
Though with some good spirit and some cave men communication techniques,
pointing and making "hmm" sounds we managed to get there. The weather
unfortunately was grey and cold. This being the summer palace, it was less
impressive than it could have been. That is not to say that it wasn't because
it is. The shear size of it is astonishing. The palace is made out of several
complexes each with its own purpose. The palace is located next to a lake, who
at one point was increased in size and made deeper, to please the emperor of
the time. It is clear to see that this is a house made for a ruler with no end
to his resources. Its beautifully made, with a lot of attention to detail. We
also had some charming moment with the locals. We stopped to eat lunch at one
of the terraces. There was an old man there, drawing Chinese letters on the
ground. He approached us and to our surprise asked in perfect English if we
were American. We answered that actually no, we aren't. We started a
conversation with him. Mr. Tong has taught us some thing about Chinese
symbols, and also talked a bit about himself. It was all so very charming. The
second streak of luck with the locals was just as we were about to leave. We
peered into one of the complexes and were immediately pulled in by 3 young
Chinese girls who in heavily accented English told us about this complex,
pulling us from one room to the next. It was all so lovely and charming. They
are, it turned out, from a private school and they practice there every
weekend with presentation in English. I got a notebook and a pen, and they
asked for my name, nationality and if I had any recommendations. Then they ran
giggling, only to come back with a friend and to take their picture with us.
Taking another challenging bus back to Beijing. this time the driver forgot us
and didn't tell us when to get out. Luckily Paula's eagle eyes caught the
metro station we wanted to get out at and we got out of the bus just in time.
It has occurred to me that the Chinese people have a sort of duality. At least
in my impression so far. On the one side they are very friendly and very
helpful. On the other side they will rip you off any way they can. I wonder if
this is a semi first impression, or if I'm on to something here.

