Title: A Long day
Date: 2007-08-18 00:39:09
Tags: programming

This has been one long, and interesting day. I finally got the code part of my
project done. Though I still need to finish testing it, it looks like its all
good. I had spent all yesterday developing the equations in Maple. I wont bore
you with the math but there sure was a lot of it. I ended up with 3 full pages
of math Luckily with some export and text replacement I could incorporate it
into my python code. Then came the real hard part I end up with an equation
with my variable to the power of 8. Apparently there is no closed form
solution for equations with a power greater then 4. Which leaves me with
numerical technique. If your thinking what the? well your where I was this
morning. Luckly google saved the day. What on earth did I do before google.
There are ways to solve this given a range of numbers to look at, or a
starting estimate. Both of which I could give. Scipy has some implementation
to do that. So that was finally done. Now that I can find in focal length Y
value, I finally could complete the whole calibration on the fly. Amazing how
two days of head scratching and math can be summed up by a few lines. Then
Paula got home, we had diner and I got IMed to come play some wow, which I
just started doing again. It was fun, as it usually is. Somewhere in there I
also managed to learn how to fix the boot record for windows. I was removing
linux from Paula's computer and while removing grub things went wrong and the
windows partition just wouldn't boot. In come Are, which is one of the best IT
guys I know. I really think there is very little he doesn't know about
anything tech. I wanted to make a longer post, but its late, and I'm a bit,
eh, tipsy, so this will have to do. Good night

