Title:Adding a movie with chapters from iMovie to iDVD
Date: 2010-10-04 22:43:32
Tags: guide, guide, idvd, ilife, imovie, mac, os x

iLife 08 brought a big change to iMovie. iMovie 06 was a very capable video
editing software with a good plugin library. iMovie 08 has taken a step back
in the amount of pure editing feature. It seemed like apple was aiming to make
iMovie the "iPhoto for home video". One of the features not to make it to
iMovie 08 was the ability to mark chapters for iDVD. In iLife 08 when you
import a movie from iMovie to iDVD you get it as one movie. There is no way to
break it down to chapters in iDVD as well. In comes GarageBand. Made not only
for music but also for creating podcasts, GarageBand can put markers on a
track. iDVD will see these marks as well and treat them as chapters.  To mark
chapters in a movie follow the following steps: 1. Start a new project in
GarageBand and remove the default audio track. 2. in the media browser, select
your iMovie movie that you want to add chapters to and drag it to GarageBand
track window. 3. By pressing P, or choosing ---- you can add a chapter marker
at the player head location. I suggest you give the chapters more meaningful
names then the default "Chapter" plus number that is automatically generated.
Once you have all the chapters marked there are two options to get this into
iDVD. If this movie is the only movie you want to have chaptered in your DVD,
you choose the export to iDVD option. If you choose this option a menu with
the option to play the whole movie, or to choose between chapters will be
created as well as chapter selection sub-menus. Although this option is the
simplest, you wont be able to combine two or more chaptered movies like this.
To get around this you need to add one more step before going into iDVD. In
GarageBand choose the "export to iTunes" option. This will add the movie to
the the iTunes movie library. Going now to iDVD, create a new project or open
one you already have made. In the media browser go to iTunes section in the
movie tab and drag the movie to the menu you want it on. iDVD will create the
menus like it would if you would export from GarageBand. By creating a new
menu page you can add another film. In this way you can have more then one
chaptered  movie in iDVD.

