Title:Epic Elite 2011 Review
Date: 2011-05-18 21:50:06
Tags: epic, impressions, mtb, review, specialized

In my hunt for a new bike, the Epic from specialized is high on the list. I
was lucky enough to secure a test bike from [bikeshop](bikeshop.nl) in
Amersfoort. My current bike is a 2007 Specialized Rockhopper, which is a hard
tail. This test was also my first full suspension experience as well as the
first time I rode a 2X10 and I will keep that in mind during the review.

The [Epic](http://www.specialized.com/zz/en/bc/SBCProduct.jsp?spid=52788&scid=
1000&scname=Mountain) is Specialized's marathon/xc bike. Quoting Specialized
website the Epic is:

![2011 Epic Elite](/images/2011-epic-elite.jpg)

Whether hammering technical World Cup XC courses or local
trails, the Epic is built to be super light, fast, and efficient for explosive
climbing ability and nimble handling. With patented FSR and Brain technology,
the Epic was engineered for the race course but is remarkably adept at
gobbling up singletrack.

As I am doing mostly marathons I figured trying to ride a dedicated bike might
be a good experience. The Epic is mostly meant for climbing therefor, I needed
a course with as much climbing as possible, but I also wanted a as large as
possible a variety in terrain. I eventually settled on the following plan:

Saturday

  * Zeddam - As much climbing as you can do in NL outside of Limburg. Not so technical
  * Winterswijk - There was a new, short technical course open which even has a rock garden
Sunday

  * Amerongen - Technical at some points, flowing at others. Fun climbs and descents.

This covered pretty much all that I wanted to test considering the time I had
available to me.

### Pre-ride impression

This bike is light. Coming from my Rockhopper it felt incredibly light. The
second thing that I noticed is how the whole bike feels like one unit and not
like a collection of parts. There is a genuine wholeness to it that radiates
confidence. Generally speaking I like the look of the bike, though the
heightened bar makes it look less sporty(more on this later).

![Epic in the car](/images/epic-in-the-car.jpg)

### Zeddam

This was my first ride on the Epic. I was impressed. A lot. Right off the
start the bike felt really fast. The first part of the route can be seen as a
warmup. It is mostly flat, giving me enough time to get the feeling of the
bike. As the route progressed it became clear this bike is fast. I was
climbing faster then I expected and on the descent I was not only faster but
also had much more confidence handling the bike. The first descent on the
route has a few grooves in it and ends at a somewhat sharp left turn. Despite
this being my first ride on this bike I was going faster down and entered the
corner a lot faster then I dared on my trusty Rockhopper. I do realize that a
lot of this has to do with the bike being a full suspension bike. However,
giving me such a feeling of control and confidence is probably not only do to
the bike being a fully.

![Epic components](/images/epic-components.jpg)

The 2x10 system did take some getting used to. I did not feel like I was
missing gears, but I did need to work more with the front derailleur. For some
reason Specialized chose to use the SRAM X7 for the front derailleur. It
disappoints. Changing gear is slow and noisy even when the system is not under
pressure. Installing a 2x10 system with a medium quality front derailleur does
not work that well. The Shimano XTR rear derailleur was brilliant. Even under
pressure it would just switch fast and quietly. I believe that opting for the
X9 as a front derailleur would have made changing gears that much more
enjoyable. The shifters, Shimano SLX, work well.

![Epic brakes](/images/epic-brakes.jpg)

Let me finish the group review by talking about the brakes. The bike comes
equip with Avid Elixir R SL. 160mm at the rear and 180mm at the front(L model.
The M and S models have 160mm at the front). On my Rockhopper I have 180mm
front and back. I did not, however, felt any shortage of braking power. Far
from it. The brakes were strong precise and had a great feeling to then.
Unless you needed to break hard. The front brake seemed to change its power
all of a sudden. When breaking hard there seemed to be a point, at which,
pulling the lever even more will give a burst of stopping power that caused me
to be almost thrown out of the saddle. Even when I knew it was coming, it was
still hard to feel when exactly that point is, or to use more feelings to
avoid it.

I was going faster then I did on my Rockhopper. What impressed me most was
that confident feeling the bike gives. The geometry on the Epic is sharper
than what I am used to, the front more nervous and yet here I was going faster
then before. Normally those things don't go hand in hand. Good work
specialized.

Climbing on the Epic does feel like biking on a hard tail. Specialized brain
technology works. Whenever I would hit something that required some suspension
work, there would be a distinct 'tick' as the brain would let go and the bike
would response to the terrain. It does take getting used to. The first 3-4
times I thought it was a snakebite on my rear tire. Once I got used to it I
barely noticed it.

Going through the route, the bike just kept on impressing. Going down fast,
going up fast, technical climbs were easier to do and cornering was not only
faster but also more enjoyable. The whole ride was very enjoyable. Getting
back to my car I looked at my watch and couldn't believe what I saw. I was a
full 20% faster on this bike then I was on my Rockhopper. That is a big
difference on a 25km track. It seems that it not only feels fast, but it is
actually fast.

![Test bike at Winterswijk](/images/winterswijk.jpg)

### Winterswijk

There was a new short mountain bike track open in Winterswijk and since I was
close by I decided to go check it out. It was apparently technically
interesting and I knew it had a rock garden, so it was a good place to test
the Epic on the more technical stuff. The trail slings up and down a hill,
using as much of the hillside as possible. Lots of pinhead corners, and full
of short descents and climbs. The Epic took most of it with a stride. And what
didn't go so well has, I suspect, more to do with my skills then the bike. The
rock garden was also easily absorbed by the suspensions. The bike turns
sharply and the somewhat upright sitting position did help throw the bike
through the corners. In a marathon though, these type of sections are rare so
a lower more racy position will probably be overall better. Since I was never
here with my hardtail, I had no time comparison.

### Amerongen

The next day, I packed both my Rockhopper and the Epic and headed for
Amerongen together with Jurriaan. Jurriaan has been riding fullys for a while
now and was therefor in a much better position to determine if the previous
day's time improvements were do to the bike being a fully or to the bike
itself. I was still having a hard time believing I was 20% faster so for today
I was going to start on my Rockhopper, do a lap of the trail and then do the
same lap on the Epic. Starting with my Rockhopper meant I couldn't use "Well I
was tired" to explain the time differences. Jurriaan started on the Epic.

Some technical problem aside, the lap was just a regular Amerongen lap. A good
trail, fun, and with some nice technical parts in it. Oh and ending with a big
climb. Jurriaan will not tell me what he thought of the bike as to not
influence me (Thanks Jurriaan). He did make some slight adjustments to the
suspensions and the breaks.

Off I was on the Epic, while Jurriaan was back on his Giant. Once again I was
going way faster. The Epic was feeling even better after Jurriaan's
adjustments and the breaks have lost that unexpected extra bite. In Amerongen
there is a part of the route which is going down in a winding singletrack with
lots of roots and small holes. The epic was eating it all up. I barely felt
the seat moving. The bike felt stable, fast and I had a lot of confidence.
Cornering, even on loose sand felt good and I was caring more speed then I was
used too. While climbing there was no movement from the rear suspension even
though the brain was set to open all the way.

Opening the brain all the way was Jurriaan's idea and I really liked it. The
bike felt a lot more plush and there appeared to be no negative effects to it.
What more, it was even easier to remain seated and keep pedaling even when the
ground was very uneven. The lap was over way to soon for me. I glanced at the
watch on the end of it and once again, I was 20% faster. That settles it then.
I am basically around 20% faster on this bike.

### General ride impressions

This bike is the first bike I ride at this price range and so I can't really
say how much of it is due to the Epic and how is due to it just being a class
higher then my current bike. That said, this is one mean machine. It handles
sharply, and at the same time very reassuring. It manages to absorb a lot
without disconnecting you from what is going on bellow you. It climbs faster
then my Rockhopper and leaves it in the dust on the descents. Cornering is
linear and predictable. the bike really has good grip even on loose sand. I
was, in a word, sold. In the car on the way back to Utrecht Jurriaan dropped,
"Shit, it is better then my bike".

After we got home, Jurriaan mailed me his improssion of the bike. For
fairness, I give the list he mailed me.

  * Sitting position for climbing is to straight up, which leads to slow climbing.
  * Stem is angled to high up, which is not race oriented.
  * The fork is not very plush, to much race oriented
  * The brain system is not really needed as it works great even with the brain completely open.
  * Brakes were biting to hard before adjustments. They work better after adjustment.
  * The XTR rear derailleur is good, the front derailleur X7 cracks but works.
  * Very stable on the descents
  * Steers very sharp in corners, even on uneven terrain.
  * Bottom bracket is somewhat low, though it might be due to tilting the bike to much
As you an see, Jurriaan does not completely agree with me, but hey, its MY
test.

### Conclusion

Specialized, in its commercials for the Epic say its two bikes in one. It may
only have 100mm of travel but for the Netherlands thats more then enough. For
most marathons and XC it is more then enough. The Epic manages to be fast and
sharp without hurting your confidence. It climbs fast and with some
adjustments to the bar it will climb even faster. It descents really faster.
If your looking for a marathon bike I don't think you can go wrong with this
one.

