Title:How I ended up disliking religion by being with religious people
Date: 2009-01-15 22:17:19
Tags: religon, thoughts

Let me start by saying I am not a religious person. I did not have a religious
upbringing, even though I was at a religious kinder garden, and I do not
believe in the existence of god. Or gods. These last six months I have been
working with, almost exclusively, quite religious people. Since I work at the
IT branch this is something that is note worthy. Most IT people I know are not
religious. Some of them believe in the existence of a god, others don't, but I
would definitely not classify them as religious. However, as I stated, I found
my self in a team in which I was pretty much the only non believer. Coming
from Israel, religion has always been something that is there. Though I am not
a believer, I always thought that there is a lot of good coming from all these
people. You could say my disposition towards religious people was positive. I
now have a strong dislike towards anyone that is considering himself
religious. and let me tell you why. In the first few weeks I was completely
fascinated by these people. My friends are not religious, neither are my
parents. You could say I grew up with little direct influence from any sort of
religion. I do realize a lot of the traditions I was raised with come from the
Jewish belief, however they were, at least for me, nothing more than that. A
tradition. And here I was surrounded by this group of true believers. We
talked about faith, about why they believe, about what they see and how they
experience the world. All 4 of them (note: 3 Christians and 1 Muslim) renounce
evolution. I got answers like "Are you a dog?" and "I do not come from an
ape". And that was about all the proof they had. That was all the proof they
needed. Well that and the holy scripts. It bothered me that I could not get
through with rational thoughts to these people. Yet at the time I did not know
quite why I was so bothered by this. I noticed I slightly shifted from being
slightly positive to getting angry with them. Here was a group of people who
are capable of thinking, that at some trail of thoughts completely lost touch
with logic. That transaction was making me frustrated and angry. why is this
happening? Why can they be perfectly logical one minute then completely break
with logic the other. They brought up their arguments, I blew them away with
pure and simple logic and so we always ended up with two things: 1. God's plan
is impossible for us to understand, or Gods way are mysterious, or things that
to us seem illogical or impossible are actually logical and possible to a God.
2. I just know it is, or, it says so in the bible. And that was that. There is
nothing to be brought against those arguments because they are just like
"because". No logic, no thinking, no reason, just "because". After a few of
these talks I started to see what was making me so upset. It was that these,
otherwise intelligent people were CHOOSING to see it like that. For the life
of me I could not understand why anyone would want to do it. Then again if I
could I would probably be a religious person. That was when the last shift was
starting to happen in my attitude towards them. I moved from getting angry at
them to feeling sorry for them. And then it finally hit me. The difference
between how they think and I think. I look at the world, and then shape my
ideas of it They have their ideas, then shape the world so that it would fit.
And that was that. These people, and this is the worst part, **by their own
choice** are blind to the world. They know for sure how everything is, it is
for them just a matter of interpreting everything in a way that matches their
idea of how the world is. I now understand how people can do all the terrible
things that they do in the name of religion. They do not see it as terrible
things. I am actually convinced some of them see it as a good thing. A just
thing. My colleges think that being gay is a choice, and that its bad, because
it says so in the holy bible. I'm serious. So now all I do is feel pity for
them. They have chosen a path that was a bad idea in the middle ages, let
alone in modern time. At the same time I am growing anti-religious by the
minute. Look at the conflicts we have in the world now. Look at how many of it
is religious based. What's that you say, "Religion is just an excuses given to
the masses". Maybe, possibly. However, remove that excuses and it becomes a
lot harder to get so many people to do so many horrible things. Religion might
be misused, but if it is, than it has been for centuries. Maybe its time we
realized that the only way to stop making religion an excuse is to reduce its
power so that it can't be used as such. Think I am being to harsh, look at the
world map again, think of the conflicts that are going on now in the world.
How many are not religion related? How many are? Exactly I rest my case. Last
note. There is still hope. Every generation there are more of us thinking
people, and less of then bling people. One day, relgion will be a marginal
group. That will be a good day.

