Title:MotoGP openning race
Date: 2008-03-10 11:31:13
Tags: sport

This weekend haled the start of the MotoGP season of 2008. The senior class
has seen some major changes. Jorge Lorenzo, Andrea Dovizioso and Randy De
Puniet, the three big names from the 250 all moved to the gp class. Lorenzo as
Rossi's team mate. Edwards moved to the tech 3 Yamaha team, Melandri to
Ducatti replacing Cappirossi which in turn moved to Suzuki. The opening race
was held at night for the first time. Though I have to admit there is certain
magic to racing at night, it really is a huge waste of energy to keep that
much light going. I hope this will not begin a new trend in the MotoGP world.
The beginning of the race was very exciting. Pedrosas had a great start,
starting from third row he took the leading off the first corner. There was a
lot of action the first 10 rounds with Rossi, Jorge, Stoner, Pedrosa,
Dovizioso battling it out for the leading. Unfortunately At the 10'th round it
started to look like the previous season. Stoner was at the front, and slowly
but surely increasing his lead, Jorge was in second place. Rossi started to
loose places to finish 5th. Pedrosa took the last podium place. Dovizioso
ended 4th after a nice fight with Rossi in the last 2 rounds. It looks like
the 2008 season has the potential to be very exciting but it can also end up
with Stoner dominating once again. In 3 weeks we will see how things
developed.

