Title:Obertauern
Date: 2011-03-12 16:27:42
Tags: austria, snow, snowboard

Obertauern, the powder bowl of Austria! Boy oh boy was I looking forward to
our week there. For two years now I was planning on going there. Always had to
cancel because it was just to expensive. Not this year though. This year we
were going. I usually go with Erwin and Marcelo, both of which are way, way,
better than I am. This time I was going with my wife and friends of ours and
so I found myself in a new position. That of the top dog. And so we went, the
four of us to what should have been Powder valhalla. Except it wasn't. The
2010/11 season sure has been a weird one. When I came to Austria at October
there was meters of powder all over the place. At March, when we arrived at
Obertauern, there was no powder and very little snow. In fact it has not
snowed in almost 3 weeks. Riding powder was just not going to happen. The
pistes were in good shape. It is weird talking about Obertauern in terms of
pistes but hey, its all I had. Being the top dog did give me a lot of
confidence and I noticed I was pushing harder and going faster then I am with
Marcelo and Erwin. Just goes to show how important self confidence is. Then
again it can also be a hazard. On the fourth day I made a jump but mistimed my
pop and so ended up landing on my nose. That gave me a big pop I didn't quite
expect. "Oh shit" was al I could think as i landed on my left shoulder. Hard.
My shoulder has suffered its share of snowboard crashes but this has been one
of the worse. Took me two days to recover. One thing I tried for the first
time now was filming while riding. Since I don't have a helm cam, I held my
iPhone in front of my, like I saw Erwin do. I am quite pleased with the
result.  This has also concluded my 2010/11 winter sports season. Mountain
biking is now my main focus.

