Title:The beginning
Date: 2010-12-29 21:16:32
Tags: impressions, thoughts

It all started with somebody else's dream. A friend of mine has always dreamed
about crossing the alps on a mountain bike. This guy was definitely not new to
mountain bike adventures. He has already cycled, over a period of three months
along the rockies from Canada to Mexico. One evening in February 2010 we
decided that this is going to be the year to do it. In the few months to
follow we gathered a group of friends together and in July we left for
Austria.

Mountain biking has been a hobby of mine for a few year then, though I cannot
really say that I have been serious about it. In the three years preceding the
trip, I had about 6 mountain bike weekends in the Ardennen and an occasional
ride in the Netherlands. Actually, I was way more interested in snowboarding
and longboarding at the time. Also I was not very fit, while the rest of the
group where all very fit people. All this led me to expect, upon returning,
that I would probably want to throw away my mountain bike, or at least not see
them for a long long time.

As I expected, I was dangling behind the group a lot, but as the week
progressed, that distance became smaller and smaller (My stamina was improving
while everybody else's was decreasing). More interesting was that with each
day I was enjoying myself more and more. At the end of the week, I wish it
would not end, I want more. A lot more.

Upon returning to the Netherlands, instead of storring away my bike, I just
wanted to ride them. All the time. So I decided to try a marathon race.
Together with Erwin, who also got the mountain bike bug during our transalp
adventure, we signed up for the Houffamarathon. The Houffamarathon in
Houffalize, Belgium is one of the hardest in europe. Since I have mountain
biked there before I knew the area was great for riding. Erwin opted for the
117km, I went with the 77km.

It was cold and rainy, the course was full of mud, and it was an absolute
blast. For some weird reason, I found out that though my body was in pain I
was having the time of my life. It is then that the words of Dean Karnazes
came back to me

"Somewhere along the line, we mistook comfort for happiness"

I was definitely not comfortable, but I was very very happy. After the fun I
had at the Houffamarathon, I participated in two more before the season ended.
The dutch mountain bike marathon championship at Groesbeek (Hel van Groesbeek)
and the Bart Brentjens challenge. Again, each race was an enjoyment. It was
hard, and I was in pain quite a lot, but as a whole I was feeling very happy.

It was not just races though. After returning from the transalp, I started
cycling to work (A 22km ride) almost every day, and riding trails as much as I
can. Some weeks I was exceeding the 200km. I was feeling happier, and as
another nice side effect I was loosing excessive fat. It is next to impossible
not to be motivated when all this is happening.

Winter is now at full force here in the Netherlands with temperatures under
freezing most of the time and a lot of snow, so even though I do try and ride
trails I have not been able to do a lot of it as of late. The good news is
that spring is coming closer inch by inch, and this time I will be ready. I
have applied for a racing license and this season I intend to compete in as
many races as I can physically and mentally manage.

The changes that I have gone through this last 6 months have been way more
then simply a newfound passion for the sport. I am more confident, my focus
has improved and all in all I am happier.  Loosing a few Kgs extra weight has
also been very appreciated.

It would be to far of to say that I have, in a sense, reinvented my life. My
priorities have shifted, I live more fully and I am fitter an healthier.  My
intention here is to keep myself motivated but also to try and help other
people started in this wonderful sport.

It all started with somebody else's dream. A friend of mine has always dreamed
about crossing the alps on a mountain bike. This guy was definitely not new to
mountain bike adventures. He has already cycled, over a period of three months
along the rockies from Canada to Mexico. One evening in February 2010 we
decided that this is going to be the year to do it. In the few months to
follow we gathered a group of friends together and in July we left for
Austria. Mountain biking has been a hobby of mine for a few year then, though
I cannot really say that I have been serious about it. In the three years
preceding the trip, I had about 6 mountain bike weekends in the Ardennen and
an occasional ride in the Netherlands. Actually, I was way more interested in
snowboarding and longboarding at the time. Also I was not very fit, while the
rest of the group where all very fit people. All this led me to expect, upon
returning, that I would probably want to throw away my mountain bike, or at
least not see them for a long long time. As I expected, I was dangling behind
the group a lot, but as the week progressed, that distance became smaller and
smaller (My stamina was improving while everybody else's was decreasing). More
interesting was that with each day I was enjoying myself more and more. At the
end of the week, I wish it would not end, I want more. A lot more. Upon
returning to the Netherlands, instead of storring away my bike, I just wanted
to ride them. All the time. So I decided to try a marathon race. Together with
Erwin, who also got the mountain bike bug during our transalp adventure, we
signed up for the Houffamarathon. The Houffamarathon in Houffalize, Belgium is
one of the hardest in europe. Since I have mountain biked there before I knew
the area was great for riding. Erwin opted for the 117km, I went with the
77km. It was cold and rainy, the course was full of mud, and it was an
absolute blast. For some weird reason, I found out that though my body was in
pain I was having the time of my life. It is then that the words of Dean
Karnazes came back to me"Somewhere along the line, we mistook comfort for
happiness"I was definitely not comfortable, but I was very very happy. After
the fun I had at the Houffamarathon, I participated in two more before the
season ended. The dutch mountain bike marathon championship at Groesbeek (Hel
van Groesbeek) and the Bart Brentjens challenge. Again, each race was an
enjoyment. It was hard, and I was in pain quite a lot, but as a whole I was
feeling very happy. It was not just races though. After returning from the
transalp, I started cycling to work (A 22km ride) almost every day, and riding
trails as much as I can. Some weeks I was exceeding the 200km. I was feeling
happier, and as another nice side effect I was loosing excessive fat. It is
next to impossible not to be motivated when all this is happening. Winter is
now at full force here in the Netherlands with temperatures under freezing
most of the time and a lot of snow, so even though I do try and ride trails I
have not been able to do a lot of it as of late. The good news is that spring
is coming closer inch by inch, and this time I will be ready. I have applied
for a racing license and this season I intend to compete in as many races as I
can physically and mentally manage. The changes that I have gone through this
last 6 months have been way more then simply a newfound passion for the sport.
I am more confident, my focus has improved and all in all I am happier.
Loosing a few Kgs extra weight has also been very appreciated.It would be to
far of to say that I have, in a sense, reinvented my life. My priorities have
shifted, I live more fully and I am fitter an healthier.  My intention here is
to keep myself motivated but also to try and help other people started in this
wonderful sport.

